# tortuga_journal

## So.

## I left for the Balkans with nothing but myself; I returned with nothing more. What I saw was nothing special, those I met with quite ordinary. It is a journey I shall never forget, and a journey easily forgotten.

## Towering above the small settlement of Kotor is a mountain, a fortress nestled on top. I venture up the path, and admire the fjords of the harbor.

crunching gravel underfoot
blistering sun peeks
through the leaves

## Along the way I find a small pasture.

a church abandoned
a lunch to enjoy! 

## The day is a cold and cloudy one, and the only peace I find is in the courtyard of a monastery long since turned into a museum.

wind
like water
cleansing

## Watching the sun set, I find pleasant company with a cat quite interested in my sweater.

how easy
the sea can be calmed
with a wall 

the wind howls
but only quiet
reaches me here 

## The ruined fort hides the fields and mountains of the countryside, unspoiled.

baaing
from where
i cannot see 

## Nestled deep in the forest of Lokrum are hiking paths where only birds punctuate the silence.

ruined walls
only guide 

## The mosque is manned by a kindly old man who talks with me as I wander the sacred grounds. He is wise, but I do not linger.

this breeze
touches
only me 

## Slippers on my feet, I climb the cold steps of the minaret.

green water
flowing by
minaret and cross 

## I find silence at Blagaj Tekke. Constructed next to a waterfall, holy men for centuries used it as a place of refuge. It is a privilege to enjoy the peace they have built.

remove your shoes
keep yourself covered
rushing water sound 

## The coffee of the Balkans is a favorite. The feelings of warmth it imbues are always welcome.

glistening metal
bitter sludge
Bosnian, not Turkish 

a cathedral of
silence ruined
by rail 

## I spend many hours in Liberation Square watching some elderly men engrossed in endless matches of chess. The board and pieces are large, and the crowd even larger. An afternoon of tension, impressive play, and the joy of victorynothing can be better.

biting nails
setting sun
pawn to b4 

## I have never heard the call to prayer before this journey. At first, it is a surreal moment. Time seems as if it has stopped as the call reverberates around me. But quite soon it becomes merely a comfort, a reminder of a home I've never had.

echoing calls
twilight falls
time to pray 

## An eight hour train journey is a wonderful time for contemplation, and I am thankful to have Basho's musing for the ride.

the tracks lull me
into sleep
that never comes

## The train steams on through the day, and I have the joy of watching the setting sun outside my window.

dandelion motes
float into view
how did they get here? 

flash of golden sun
a rainbow
through my window 

## Filled with the bustle of tourists, I visit Plitvice Lakes and braved the crowds. The sights I am rewarded with more than make up for the hassle.

camera snaps
cannot drown out
the sound of falling water

## The ferry is crowded and slow, but the water simply majestic.

water
so clear
the fish float 

## I am never too far from home as I wander the dreamlike streets of Zagreb. The air buzzes with energy indescribable.

at night
everything feels
like mine 

## The train zooms past the cultivated land of Slovenia. Wilderness is truly hard to find.

gently rocking
field and sky
go flying by 

## An early rise lets me wander Ljubljana as the sun begins its creeping ascent. Fog clings to the ground as the city awakens from its slumber.

the dragon
guards over
empty streets 

## The Julian Alps loom large for the week I am in their shadow. Their snow capped peaks enchant me, even as I explore the city.

fog off
the mountain tops
the day begins 

## I take a hike through Slovene villages. A pleasant walk, I stumble across rolling fields and charming towns, blessed by the warmth of the sun.

looking ahead
but it draws me back
the snow tipped mountain 

## Lake Bled is beautiful indeed, but it is the mountains that capture my imagination this day.

just a glimpse
of Alpine snow
do i want the fog to lift? 

the peak!
just a peek
just a peak 

## Peering over the city, the castle provides a sight unmatched. The wind is crisp, and the conversation warm.

clouds hanging
with the hint
of rain 

## Who would have thought that ramen could be found in a place like this? Tupac blaring, strawberry gelato in my future.

stars above
and lights below
illuminate my breath 

## It takes some luck, but I finally manage to make it atop the mountain. Still snow on the ground in late spring; how fortunate I am! A quick meal in the lodge prepares me for the day ahead. While I can't enjoy the ski slopes, I take solace in the snowy hike that awaits me.

where were
these snow capped tips
hiding? 

## The hike is long, the snow deep, and the weather icy cold, but the swaying trees keep me company.

the roaring wind
i mistake
for a stream 

## I lose my glasses in the mountains, and it only takes me three hours to find them perched atop the glistening white snow.

clouds
or mountain tops?
i cannot say 

## A light dusting of snow brings me joy beyond words.

white petals and
snow dancing
in the wind 

mountains calling
on the horizon
not today